New Topic: C# with a few initial concepts and terms (#1017)
Codecademy/docs: content/c-sharp/concepts/variables/variables.md

---
Title: 'Variables'
Description: 'A variable refers to a storage location in the computer’s memory that one can set aside to save, retrieve, and manipulate data.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags:
  - 'Variables'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-sharp'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> A **variable** refers to a storage location in the computer’s memory that one can set aside to save, retrieve, and manipulate data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **variable** is a storage location in the computer’s memory that is used to save, retrieve, and manipulate data.
```

## Syntax

> Minimally a variable is declared by specifying a data type and a name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Minimally, a variable is declared by specifying a data type and a name:
```

```pseudo
type name;
```

> In this case the variable will be initialized with the default value for its type, which is zero for numeric types, and `null` for reference types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, the variable will be initialized with the default value for its type, which is zero for numeric types, and `null` for reference types.
```

> In this case, the variable will be initialized with the default value for its type, which is zero for numeric types, and `null` for reference types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the variable will be initialized with the default value for its type: zero for numeric types, and `null` for reference types.
```

A variable can also be initialized with a value when it is declared:

```pseudo
type name = value;
```

In this case the variable `name` will be set to the value `value`.

> > **Note:** The value `value` must be of type `type` or be able to be implicitly converted to `type`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** `value` must be of type `type` or be able to be implicitly converted to `type`.
```

## Example

```cs

> Using System

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using System;
```

public class Example
{
  public static void Main(string[] args)
  {
    int x = 1;
    int y = x + 5;
    long z = y;

>     Console.WriteLine("The int {0} can be implicitly converted to the long {1}.",y,z);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Console.WriteLine("The int {0} can be implicitly converted to the long {1}.", y, z);
```
